Checkers is also known as Straight Checkers, Anglo-American Draughts, Draughts or Draught in the UK and Dams in Scotland. It is the version played in the US, British Isles, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Denmark, and much of the Caribbean. It is a Short Draughts variation played on the dark cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. Black has the first move. A singleton, called a man, moves and captures diagonally forward only. The Crownhead Stop Rule applies and upon promotion in the crownhead, men become kings (dams in Scotland). The Compulsory Free Capture Rule also applies.

Dama (Italian Draughts), played in Italy, is a Short Draughts variation played on the dark cells of a mirrored 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. White has the first move. A singleton, called a pedina, moves and captures diagonally forward only. A pedina may not capture a promoted counter. The Crownhead Stop Rule applies and upon promotion in the crownhead, pedinas become damas. The Compulsory Maximum Capture Rule also applies. If two potential captures are equal, precedence is given to capture by the dama over the capture by the pedina. If two equal series of captures are available for two different damas, a series that captures more opposing damas must be given precedence. If still equal, a move must take precedence where the dama is captured first.

Dama (Spanish Draughts) is the version played in Spain and Portugal. It is a Long Draughts variation. In Spain it is played on the light cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. The Portuguese version is played on the dark cells of a mirrored 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. White has the first move. A singleton, called a peon, moves and captures diagonally forward only. The Crownhead Stop Rule applies and upon promotion in the crownhead, peons become damas. The Compulsory Maximum Capture Rule also applies. If two or more series of otherwise equal multiple jump and capture moves are available, the player must make the move which captures the maximum number of opposing damas.

Čech Dáma (Czech Draughts) is the version played in Territory formerly occupied by the Czechoslovak Republic. It is a Long Draughts variation played on the dark cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. White has the first move. A singleton moves and captures diagonally forward only. The Crownhead Stop Rule applies and upon promotion in the crownhead, peons become dámas. The Compulsory Free Capture Rule applies, but captures with a dáma take precedence over a captures with a singleton.

Thai Draughts is a Long Draughts variation played on the dark cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with only eight counters arranged on all available cells of their first two rows. Black has the first move. Singletons move and capture diagonally forward only. The Crownhead Stop Rule applies. Doubletons have the long move but its capture has restrictions unique to this game. A capturing doubleton may jump an opposing counter from any distance along a diagonal, but is required to land at the cell immediately after the counter it has taken. This capturing doubleton is allowed to make the normal enchained captures, provided that it lands at the next cell after each capture. Diagram? The Compulsory Free Capture Rule applies. A similar game using the same capturing doubleton restrictions is known from southern Germany, but it commences with twelve counters per 

player.

Damenspiel (German Draughts) is a Long Draughts variation played on the dark cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. White has the first move. A singleton, called a stein, moves and captures diagonally forward only. The Crownhead Stop Rule applies and upon promotion in the crownhead, steins become dames. The Compulsory Free Capture Rule also applies.

Damspel (Swedish Draughts) is a Long Draughts version played in Sweden and Norway. It is played on the dark cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. Black has the first move. A singleton, called a bricka, moves diagonally forward only, but may capture diagonally forwards and backwards. The Crownhead Continue Rule applies. Upon promotion in the crownhead, brickas become dams. The Compulsory Free Capture Rule also applies.

Shashki (Russian Draughts) is a Long Draughts variation played in Russia and countries of the former Soviet Union, also in Israel. It is played on the dark cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. White has the first move. A singleton, called a shashka, moves diagonally forward only, but may capture diagonally forwards and backwards. A shashka is promoted to a doubleton, called a dam, if it reaches the far edge of the board. It is always promoted upon landing in the crownhead, regardless if it stopped there at the end of its move or if it only temporarily landed there as part of an enchained capturing move. If it reaches that edge as part of a capturing move, it may continue capturing as a newly promoted dam in the same turn. The Compulsory Free Capture Rule also applies.

Pool Checkers, also known as Spanish Pool Checkers, is a Long Draughts variation primarily played in the southeastern United Sates. It is played on the dark cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. Black has the first move. A singleton moves diagonally forward only, but may capture diagonally forwards and backwards. The Crownhead Continue Rule applies for promotion to doubletons. The Compulsory Free Capture Rule also applies.

International Draughts, also known as Continental Draughts, European Draughts or Polish Draughts (inappropriately) is a Long Draughts variation played in France, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Suriname, much of eastern Europe, and many other countries. This variation was invented in France in 1723. It is played on the dark cells of a standard 10x10 checkerboard. Each player commences with twenty counters arranged on all available cells of their first four rows. White has the first move. A singleton, called a pion, moves diagonally forward only, but may capture diagonally forwards and backwards. The Crownhead Continue Rule applies and upon promotion in the crownhead, pions become dames. The Compulsory Maximum Capture Rule also applies.

Brazilian Draughts, and Philippine Draughts (also known as Derecha) seem to be International Draughts applied to the standard 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with twelve counters arranged on all available cells of their first three rows. From there, the rules of International Draughts are applied.

Of interest is that the Philippine game is often played on the intersections of a diagonally-lined board that is topologically equivalent to the playable cells of a standard 8x8 checkerboard. Games historians are quick to note that this is likely similar to an intermediate step in the evolution of Alquerque into the Draughts games of today and may be similar to a game, Andarraya, mentioned in Spanish Renaissance literature. It is even possible, but not verified, that the Philippines have retained the board of this game as it was introduced to them by the Spaniards as early as the 16th century.   

Frysk damjen (Frisian Draughts), also known as Babylonian Draughts, Fries Dammen, Jeu du Dame Bablionique, Makvaer, Marquern or Molkwerums Dammen, is played in the Northern Netherlands (Frisian Islands), parts of Germany and parts of Denmark. It is a Long Draughts variation played on the dark cells of a standard 10x10 checkerboard. Each player commences with twenty counters arranged on all available cells of their first four rows. White has the first move.  A singleton, called a man, moves diagonally forward only, but may capture diagonally forwards, diagonally backwards, and orthogonally. In other words, a singleton may capture in any of eight directions. Orthogonal capture is rare for any Draughts variant. Since light squares are not used, this kind of jump implies to move a man four squares away when making an orthogonal jump. The Crownhead Continue Rule applies and upon promotion in the crownhead, men become wolves.  Wolves move and capture any distance in any direction diagonally or orthogonally. The Compulsory Maximum Capture Rule also applies and is very specific for Frisian Draughts. Precedence is given to a wolf's capturing move over a man's (singleton's) capturing move. Capture of a wolf is given precedence over capture of a man, but capture of two men is given precedence over the capture of a single wolf.

Draughtsboard from the Philippines where counters are played at the intersections.  Is this a link between Alquerque and Checkers?

Canadian Draughts, also known as Le jeu de dames canadien, Quebec Checkers or Montreal Checkers is almost identical (probably coincidentally) with Draughts played in India and Sri Lanka. It should be noted that, despite this variation's nomenclature of Canadian Draughts, most of Canada plays the same version of Draughts (Checkers) played in the UK and USA and this version described here is mostly endemic to French-speaking Quebec. It is a Long Draughts variation played on the dark cells of a standard 12x12 checkerboard. India and Sri Lanka, however, play on a mirrored 12x12 checkerboard. This being the only notable difference between the Canadian and Indian/Sri Lankan versions. Each player commences with thirty counters arranged on all available cells of their first five rows. White has the first move. A singleton, called a man, moves diagonally forwards only, but may capture diagonally forwards and backwards. The Crownhead Continue Rule and upon promotion in the crownhead, men become kings. The Compulsory Maximum Capture Rule also applies.

Dama (Graeco-Turkish Draughts), also known as Orthogonal Draughts, is played in Greece, Turkey, Israel, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and other areas of the Middle East. It is a unique Long Draughts variation played on an 8x8 uncheckered board. All sixty-four cells of the board are square and uniform. Each player commences with sixteen counters arranged on all of the cells of their second and third rows. A singleton, called a pioni, moves and captures orthogonally forward or sideways. The Crownhead Stop Rule applies and upon promotion in the crownhead, a pioni becomes a dama. Damas move any amount of squares orthogonally and capture via an orthogonal Long Jump in any direction (forwards, backwards and sideways). Another unique feature to this game is that counters are removed as they are captured (rather than at the end of the capturing move). This means that a enemy counter that is captured as part of an enchained capture may not serve to block the capturing counter from landing on its cell of occupation during the move that captures it. There are no diagonal moves or diagonal captures in this game. The Compulsory Maximum Capture Rule applies.

Armenian Draughts is very similar to Graeco-Turkish Draughts except that it also allows diagonal movement, but not diagonal capture. Unpromoted singletons move directly forward, sideways, or diagonally forward for a total of five possible movements. Promoted counters have the long move and long jump, as in Turkish Checkers, but also may move diagonally any number of cells forward or backward. This means that a promoted counter has moves like those of the Queen in Orthochess. Although diagonal movement is allowed, counters, whether promoted or unpromoted, may not capture diagonally.

Gothic Draughts is reportedly one of the oldest forms of Draughts described. It is an unusual form of Short Draughts from Germany. It is played on all the cells of a mirrored 8x8 checkerboard. Each player commences with sixteen counters arranged on all the cells, both dark and light, of their first two rows. Unpromoted singletons move diagonally forward one row at time but capture diagonally forward and orthogonally forward or sideways. That is, they may capture, by short jump, in any of the five non-retreating directions. Upon promotion to doubletons, counters may move forwards or backwards diagonally one row at time, but may capture via the Short Jump in any horizontal, vertical, or diagonal line. Presumably, the Crownhead Stop Rule applies. Note that any counter will never change the color of the cells that it can be played on and thus each player has two disjoint groups of counters, commencing with eight for the dark cells and eight for the light. Some descriptions of this game apply the Compulsory Maximum Capture Rule but this may only be a rule brought into the reconstruction. Capture may not have even been compulsory in the original of this game.